Here's the graphical representation of the SLAM problem.
Giving the measurements z and the control is u,
you will learn how to solve the posterior map,
m along with the posees, x.
The SLAM problem comes in two different forms,
the Online SLAM and the Full SLAM.
Both forms are important in robotics,
since you'll encounter SLAM algorithms that solve
either the Online SLAM problem or the Full SLAM problem.
Some algorithm will even solve both problems.
Let's start with the Online SLAM problem.
At time t-1, the robot will estimate its current pose,
xz-1, and the map,
m, giving its current measurements,
Zt-1, and controls Ut-1.
Then, at time t,
the robot will estimate its new post, Xt,
and the map, m, given only its current measurements Zt, and controls Ut.
Notice how the previous measurements and controls are not taken into
consideration when computing the new estimate of the pose and the map.
Finally, at time, t+1,
the robot will estimate its current post Xt+1 and the map, m,
giving the measurements Zt+1 and controls Ut+1.
Thus, with the Online SLAM problem,
you solve instantaneous poses independently from previous measurements and controls.
This problem can be model with the probability equation,
P of xt, m, giving z1:t,
u1:t, where we solve the posterior represented by instantaneous pose and the map,
giving the measurements and controls.
So with the Online SLAM,
we estimate variables that occur at time t only.